
Transcriber's Note

- There are a few handwritten comments on the original document.
These have been transcribed and included with the notation
"[Handwritten note: ]".

- On page 3, the word "flour" has been changed to "flower" (in a flower
pot).

       *       *       *       *       *




                [Illustration: LET'S USE
                       SOYBEANS]

              Department of Home Economics
  Extension Service in Agriculture and Home Economics
                University of Illinois
                    Urbana, Illinois




LET'S USE SOYBEANS


Soybeans and soybean products are receiving increased attention at the
present time when the rationing of many of the protein-rich foods of
animal origin has made us aware of the possibility of insufficient
protein in our dietaries.

This interest is highly desirable, since soybeans are such a valuable
source of protein of superior quality, of calcium and iron, and of at
least some of the members of the vitamin B complex. Soybeans also have a
high caloric value due to fat content and have a higher energy value per
pound than the other more commonly used legumes, with the exception of
peanuts.

Soybean products are sometimes called "diabetic foods" because they
contain no starch. It should be remembered, however, that soybeans
contain some soluble sugars; in all about 10 per cent or more of the
weight of dry soybeans is carbohydrate which the body can utilize. Even
so, this is much less than the carbohydrate content of other beans and
of wheat flour.


_Varieties of Soybeans_

There are two general types of soybeans, the field type and the edible
or vegetable type, which differ greatly in palatability. As the name
implies, the edible or vegetable varieties are more satisfactory for
human consumption, although a few of the field soybeans are also
palatable. Some of the vegetable types which are rated "very good" are
Hokkaido, Willomi, Jogun, Imperial, and Emperor. Among the field
varieties that are satisfactory for edible purposes are the Illini and
Manchu.




_HOW TO USE GREEN SOYBEANS_


Immature soybeans are very welcome as an early fall green vegetable.
Soybeans are ready for table use as soon as the pods have completely
filled out and while they are still green in color. This is in late
August or in September, depending on the variety, the time of planting,
and the season. Not all plants of the same variety mature at the same
time, but usually the maturity of pods on a single plant is sufficiently
uniform to warrant pulling the entire plant. The plants can then be
taken to a shady place to pick off the pods.

_To make hulling easier_, pour boiling water over the soybean pods and
let them stand 5 minutes in the hot water. Drain, and hull by breaking
the pod crosswise and squeezing out the beans. Cook as follows: To 1 pt
hulled beans, add 1 c boiling water and 3/4 t salt. Cover and cook for
10 minutes after the beans begin to boil. Avoid overcooking. Drain, and
season with butter or in any other manner desired. Soybeans of the
vegetable type should still be bright green in color after cooking, and
they will have a nutty texture. They do not soften like green peas but
can be used in any of the ways that green peas or green lima beans are
used.


_Preservation_

Green soybeans can be preserved by freezing, canning, or dehydrating,
although at the present time freezing seems to be the most satisfactory
method. (For directions for freezing see University of Illinois Circular
510, "How to Prepare Fruits and Vegetables for Freezer Storage.")

There is a difference of opinion with regard to the canning of soybeans.
Some feel that the flavor of the green soybean when canned is not
satisfactory, while others report palatable products. Soybeans should be
packed hot after blanching the shelled beans for 3 minutes in boiling
water. Some authorities recommend the addition of 1 t salt and from 1/2
to 1 t sugar to each pint of green soybeans. U.S.D.A. Farmers' Bulletin
No. 1762 recommends using a pressure cooker at 10 pounds pressure for
the following periods: pint jars, 80 minutes; quart jars, 90 minutes;
No. 2 tin cans, 70 minutes; No. 3 tin cans, 85 minutes. (Soaked mature
soybeans can also be preserved for future use by canning in the same
way.)

For the dehydration of green soybeans, it is generally agreed that a
steam blanching of from 5 to 7 minutes before shelling is satisfactory.
The shelled beans should then be dehydrated at a temperature of 150° F.
for the first half of the dehydration, and at 145° F. for the remainder
of the time. It will take from 6 to 9 hours for the process, and the
finished product will be hard and wrinkled but still green in color.
(For more complete directions for dehydration see University of Illinois
Circular 558, "Dehydrating Fruits and Vegetables at Home.")




_WAYS OF USING DRY SOYBEANS_


_Cooking Dry Soybeans_

_Method I._ Soak 1 c dry soybeans in 3 c water overnight. Drain[A] and
cook for 1 to 1-1/2 hours in 3 c fresh water to which 3 t salt have been
added.

  [A] To save nutrients, mild-flavored soybeans may be cooked in
  the water in which they were soaked.

_Method II._ Soak beans as in Method I, cook in a pressure cooker at 10
lbs. pressure for 10 minutes in 1-1/2 c water to which 1-1/2 t salt has
been added.

The beans may be seasoned with either butter or meat and served, or they
may be used in any of the dishes for which navy or lima beans are used.
They are more nutty in texture, however, than ordinary beans.


_Roasted Soybeans_

Two methods for roasting mature soybeans are given below. The products
in both cases are acceptable, but Method I gives more desirable results,
since the products more nearly resemble roasted peanuts. The second
method is included because of the ease of preparation and as a means of
conserving fat.

_Method I._ Soak dry soybeans overnight, or until completely swollen.
Dry the surface between towels and fry in deep fat, a few beans at a
time, for 5 to 8 minutes, depending upon the size of the beans
(temperature, 350° F.). When they are slightly brown and crisp, drain,
salt, and use as salted peanuts would be used.

_Method II._ Soak beans overnight. Dry thoroughly and roll in melted
fat. Spread in a shallow pan and roast in a moderate oven (350° F.)
until browned. Sprinkle with salt while still warm.


_Sprouting Dry Soybeans_

"Soybeans, like mung beans, can be sprouted in a flower pot, a sink
strainer, or any container that has holes in it for drainage and can be
covered. Be sure the container is large enough, for the beans swell to
at least six times their original bulk as they sprout. Soak overnight,
and next morning put the beans in the container, cover, and leave them
in a warm place. Flood with lukewarm water at least four or five times
each day during the sprouting period. In 4 to 6 days the sprouts will be
2 to 3 inches long. Then they should be kept in a cool place, just as
any fresh vegetable." (U.S.D.A. Leaflet No. 166, Soybeans for the
Table.)

Some authorities are recommending the use of chlorinated lime (calcium
hypochlorite) during the sprouting period to discourage the growth of
mold and bacteria. The amounts suggested range from 1/2 to 1 t per
gallon of water. This chlorinated water should be used for the last
sprinkling each day, and at other times plain water should be used. It
has also been found that the soybeans should be kept away from the light
while sprouting or they will develop an undesirable color. The first
requisite for soybeans to be sprouted is a variety that will germinate
readily.

  [Handwritten note:

     green baked ones are delicious too. bake as dry ones only
     no soaking or pre cooking is needed.]


_Illinois Baked Soybeans_

    3 c cooked soybeans
    3/8 t mustard
    1 t salt
    1/8 t pepper
    3 T molasses
    1/2 c boiling water
    1/2 c chili sauce
    1/4 lb diced salt pork

Combine thoroughly, in a baking dish, all the ingredients except salt
pork. Cook the salt pork in a frying pan until delicately browned. Add
the melted fat to the beans and place the squares of pork on top. Bake
at 350° for 1-3/4 to 2 hours.


_Baked Soybeans Croquettes_

    2 T minced onion
    1-1/2 c celery, diced
    1-1/2 t salt
    1 c tomato puree
    5 T flour
    2 T fat
    3 c soybean pulp (cooked and ground)

Add minced onion, celery (tough celery should be parboiled), and salt to
tomatoes and bring to a boil. Mix the flour and fat together, add the
boiling tomato puree, and cook to a thick paste. Cool, and add soybean
pulp. Shape into croquettes; roll in corn flakes. Dip in egg and milk
mixture and roll again in corn flakes. Place on a greased sheet and bake
in a hot oven (410° F.) for 20 to 30 minutes. Yield: 10 to 12
croquettes.


_Cottage Cheese Soybean Loaf_

    1/2 c roasted soybeans
    1 T chopped onion
    1 c cottage cheese
    1 c soybean pulp (cooked and ground)
    1 c milk
    1 egg, slightly beaten
    1 T fat
    1/2 t salt
    1 t poultry seasoning
    Pepper

Combine ingredients and bake in a greased loaf pan in a moderate oven
(350° F.) for 30 minutes. Yield: 6 servings.


_Soybean Loaf_

    4 c cooked soybeans
    1 c dry bread crumbs
    2 T peanut butter
    1 T poultry seasoning
    1 c milk (more, if needed)
    1/2 t pepper

Grind soybeans coarsely and combine with other ingredients. Add enough
milk to moisten. Bake in a moderate oven (350° F.) for 30 minutes. The
peanut butter may be omitted from this recipe if so desired. Yield: 6 to
8 servings.


_Soybean Sandwich Filling_

    1 c chopped cooked soybeans
    1/4 c chopped olives or pickles
    1 t chopped green onion
    1/4 t salt
    2 T mayonnaise

Blend the ingredients to the proper consistency for spreading. Serve the
sandwiches either toasted or plain. Yield: 4 large sandwiches.


_Soybean Drop Cookies_

    2-3/4 c flour
    1/2 t salt
    4 t baking powder
    1 c fat
    1-2/3 c sugar
    2 eggs
    2-3/4 c soybean pulp (cooked and ground)
    1/3 c milk
    1 t lemon flavoring

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream the fat and
sugar. Add beaten eggs and soybean pulp. Add milk and sifted dry
ingredients alternately. Drop by teaspoonfuls on a greased baking sheet
and bake 10 to 15 minutes in a hot oven (400° F.). For variety 1-1/2 c
raisins or 1 c nuts may be added to this recipe. One-third less
shortening may be used if a plainer cooky is desired. This amount makes
7 dozen small cookies.




_WAYS OF USING SOYBEAN FLOUR WITH WHEAT FLOUR_


Soybean flours will probably be found on the market more generally in
the near future than they have been in the past, and homemakers are
advised to take advantage of the opportunity to use them. These flours
are considered an especially valuable supplement to wheat flour, since
they enhance the nutritive value of baked products from the standpoint
of protein, minerals, and certain members of the vitamin B complex.

At the present time millers are preparing three types of soybean flour,
which differ in fat content. One type contains all the fat found in the
original soybean and is known as high-fat or full-fat flour. There are
also two low-fat flours from which different amounts of fat have been
removed. Because of these differences and the fact that soybean flour
contains little or no starch and no gluten, it is wise to use recipes
that are developed for soybean flour if any appreciable amount is to be
incorporated. A small amount of flour can be added to many recipes (up
to 2 T soybean flour to 14 T wheat flour) without altering the other
ingredients, but above this amount a special recipe should always be
used. The following recipes include directions for incorporating from 15
to 100 per cent soybean flour.

Soybean flour can be used as a meat extender, in gravies, soups, and
sauces, and in a variety of baked products. When substituted for part of
the wheat flour in a recipe, soybean flour has the advantage of giving a
product which tends to brown more readily and will keep fresh for a
longer time. Soybean flour also improves the crust of breads and causes
them to toast even better than usual.


_Soybean Flour Yeast Bread_

    1 c skimmed milk
    1 cake compressed yeast
    2 T sugar
    1-1/2 T fat
    2 T water
    1-3/4 t salt
    3 to 3-1/2 c soybean flour mixture
      prepared as follows:
      Mix 1/2 c soybean flour with
      3 c white flour and use
      amount needed to make a
      smooth, tender dough.

Scald milk and add salt, shortening, and sugar. Cool to room
temperature. Soften yeast in the water and add to the cooled milk. Add
about 2 c of the flour mixture and beat until smooth. Add enough flour
to make a soft dough. Turn out on floured board and knead until the
dough is smooth and elastic, adding only enough flour mixture to prevent
sticking. Put in a greased bowl; brush top with melted fat. Cover, and
let rise until trebled in bulk (about 2 hours). Punch down and let rise
until double in bulk (about 1 hour). Shape into a loaf and let rise in a
greased pan until double in volume (about 1 hour). This amount of dough
will fill a pan 4 x 9 x 3 inches, and the dough should rise to 5/8 inch
above the edge of the pan before it is placed in the oven. Bake for 50
minutes in a moderate oven (375° F.).


_Soybean Flour Rolls_

    2 c milk, scalded
    1/4 c water
    1 cake yeast
    1-1/2 t salt
    4 T shortening
    4 T sugar
    4 to 5 c soybean flour mixture
      prepared as follows:
      Mix 1 c soybean flour with
      4 c white flour and use
      amount needed to make a
      smooth, tender dough.

Use the same method as for yeast bread. Shape into the desired forms,
brush tops of rolls with melted fat, and let rise until double in
volume. Bake at 385° F. for about 15 minutes. Yield: 30 to 36 small
rolls.


_Soybean Flour Applesauce Cake_

    1/2 c fat
    1 c sugar
    1 egg
    3/4 c thick applesauce (unsweetened)
    1/4 t nutmeg
    1/2 c soybean flour
    1-1/4 c white flour
    1/2 t salt
    1-1/4 t baking powder
    1/3 t soda

Cream fat and sugar. Add beaten egg and applesauce to which the nutmeg
has been added. Stir in the sifted dry ingredients. Bake as a layer cake
for 40 to 50 minutes in a moderate oven (350° F.). Serves 10 to 12
persons.


_Soybean Flour Chocolate Cake_

    1/2 c fat
    1 c sugar
    2 eggs
    1/2 t salt
    2 t baking powder
    1/4 t soda
    2 squares chocolate
    1-1/4 c cake flour
    1/2 c soybean flour
    3/4 c + 2 T milk
    1/2 t vanilla

Cream the fat, sugar, and vanilla. Add beaten eggs; add melted
chocolate. Sift the dry ingredients and add alternately with the milk.
Bake in a shallow pan (8 x 8 inches) in a moderate oven (365° F.) for 25
to 30 minutes.


_Brownies_

    1/3 c cake flour
    1/3 c soybean flour
    1/2 t baking powder
    1/3 c shortening
    2 sq (oz) chocolate
    1 c sugar
    2 eggs
    1 t vanilla
    1/2 c chopped nuts

Cream chocolate, shortening, and vanilla. Combine sugar and beaten eggs;
add the chocolate mixture and beat well. Add sifted dry ingredients and
nuts. Bake in a greased pan (8 x 8 inches) in a moderate oven (350° F.)
for about 30 minutes. Cut in squares.

1/3 c of soybean flour can be used instead of the cake flour (making a
total of 2/3 c soybean flour) if so desired.




_MISCELLANEOUS SOYBEAN PRODUCTS_


There are other forms in which soybeans can be utilized as human food.
Some processors of soybeans are now preparing soybean grits and flakes,
and there is promise that they will be on the retail market in the near
future. These products are similar to soybean flour but are not so
finely ground. The soybean grits usually resemble coarse corn grits but
are sometimes pulverized to resemble corn meal. The flakes are similar
but are flat in shape.

Soybean grits and flakes can be used as cereals, in baked products where
a crisp texture is desirable, or as meat extenders. The greatest
difference in the behavior of the two products is that of liquid
absorption. The soybean grits tend to absorb more liquid than the
flakes, and therefore an adjustment must be made in the recipe when
using these products.


_Cinnamon Cookies_

(Using soybean grits or flakes)

    3/4 c cake flour
          and
    3 T soybean grits
          or
    1 c cake flour
          and
    1/2 c soybean flakes
    1 t cinnamon
    1/4 c shortening
    1/2 c sugar
    1/2 t vanilla
    1 egg
    1/8 t salt
    1 t baking powder

Cream the shortening and sugar. Add the vanilla. Sift the dry
ingredients and combine with the soybean grits or flakes. Add the dry
ingredients alternately with the beaten egg to the creamed mixture. Drop
by teaspoonfuls on a greased cooky sheet. Bake in a moderate oven (375°
F.) for about 10 minutes. Yield: 2 dozen cookies.


_Apple Crisp_

(Using soybean grits or flakes)

    3/4 c sugar
    1/4 t cinnamon
    4 c apples
    2/3 c brown sugar
    1/2 c flour
    6 T soybean grits or flakes
    1/4 c butter

Combine sliced apples, sugar, and cinnamon, and place in a shallow pan.
Mix brown sugar and flour and work butter into mixture until a crumbly
mixture is formed. Sprinkle this mixture over the apples. Bake in a hot
oven (400° F.) for 20 to 25 minutes. Yield: 6 to 8 servings.

  [Handwritten note:

     (over)]

  [Handwritten note:

     Soy Bean Flour Muffins

         1/2 c. soy bean flour
         1-1/2 c. white flour
         4 t. baking powder
         4 T. sugar
         1/2 t. salt
         1 egg
         4 T. melted fat
         1 c. milk

     Sift all dry ingredients together. Combine beaten egg, fat + milk +
     stir these quickly into the dry mixture. Bake in deep, greased muffin
     pans for 8 to 10 min. in a hot oven (425° F.).

     Yield 9 to 12 muffins.]




Cooperative Extension Work in Agriculture and Home Economics: University
of Illinois College of Agriculture, and the United States Department of
Agriculture cooperating. H. P. Rusk, Director. Acts approved by Congress
May 8 and June 30, 1914


  Brief of "Ways of Using Soybeans As Food,"
  18 pp. mimeo (HEE 224),
  Evelyn Chambers Faulkner, Instructor in Home Economics


HEE3197





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Let's Use Soybeans, by Anonymous

